
Frequently Asked Questions
Search Frequently Asked Questions
Begin typing to search the all FAQs on this page. As you type, the content of the page will be searched. The first match found will be set as the current result. The “Next” and “Previous” buttons will allow you to navigate to other results. The “Jump to current result” button will scroll to and focus the current result.
Search FAQs
Questions by Topic
 Questions about Harvard
 Applying to Harvard
 Financial Aid: General
 Financial Aid Application
 Study Abroad Financial Aid
 International Students
 Transfer Admissions
 Veterans Admissions
 Visiting Undergraduate Students
Questions
Questions about Harvard
General
What is the difference between Harvard College and Harvard University?
Harvard College founded in 1636, is the oldest institution of higher education in the United States. Harvard College offers a four-year undergraduate, liberal arts program for students seeking their first degree. There are about 6,600 undergraduates at the College, with nearly equal numbers of men and women. In addition to Harvard College, Harvard University includes 12 graduate and professional schools, all of which offer programs for students who already hold their first degrees and seek advanced training in their fields through master's or doctoral programs. All 12 graduate and professional schools maintain their own admissions offices and teaching faculties, and they are run independently of Harvard College. For information about Harvard's graduate programs, please contact these schools' admissions offices directly.
What is a "liberal arts & sciences" education?
Courses
Can I fulfill academic requirements with previous coursework?
Can I concentrate in business, journalism, law, or medicine?
While you can take courses related to these fields, Harvard's academic programs are not pre-professional, in that they do not provide vocational training. Many Harvard graduates plan to continue their education in professional or graduate schools, often in these fields. Please note that both medicine and law are postgraduate programs in the United States. If you are not a U.S. citizen but wish to continue your education in a professional program, particularly in an American medical school, we advise you to consult specific graduate and professional programs in advance to understand those schools' admissions and financial aid policies concerning international students.

What should I know about Harvard's science and engineering programs?
How easy is it to change my concentration?
Are there required first-year classes?
How many courses does Harvard offer?
Are there exchange programs with other Greater Boston colleges?
Faculty
What percentage of faculty members teach undergraduates?
Is it possible to get to know my professors?
How large are classes?
Campus Life
What security measures are in place at Harvard?
Is on-campus housing guaranteed?
Must I live on campus?
What will my room look like?
Where will I take my meals?
First-year students all eat together in Annenberg Hall. During sophomore through senior year, students typically eat in the dining hall located within their Houses, although students can choose to eat at other House dining halls as well. See more about dining.

What extracurricular opportunities are available?
Resources
Does Harvard provide specific resources for undocumented students?
What advising and support services are available?
Does Harvard provide services if I have a disability?
Are there research opportunities for undergraduates?
What sort of study abroad programs are available?
Life After Harvard
How successful are Harvard students in gaining admission to graduate schools or finding employment after graduation?
Will attending Harvard College affect my chances of admission to Harvard University's graduate programs in business, medicine, or law?
What is Harvard's graduation rate?
Applying to Harvard
Application Fee
Paying the admissions application fee is a hardship for my family. Can I get a waiver?
How do I pay my admissions application fee?
Is it possible to get a receipt for my application fee?
Can transfer students receive an application fee waiver?
Early Action
Why was my application deferred?
I was deferred. Is there really any chance that I still can be admitted?
I was deferred. What can I do to improve my chances of admission?
Do I need to communicate directly with the admissions staff member who read my file about my deferral?
Can I apply via rolling admission to another university if I want to apply Restrictive Early Action to Harvard?
If I apply restrictive early action to Harvard, may I apply to another private college's early action program (restrictive or not)?
If I apply restrictive early action to Harvard, may I apply to another college's early decision program?
I am applying to colleges outside of the U.S. May I apply to them at the same time as I apply Restrictive Early Action to Harvard?
May I apply to another college under its Regular Decision plan before I receive Harvard's decision on my Restrictive Early Action application?
Testing
Why did Harvard decide to require standardized testing again?
Which standardized tests does Harvard require?
How will the Admissions Committee evaluate my test scores?
What if English is not my first language?
What if I am a military veteran and never took the SAT or ACT?
Does Harvard consider scores from previous administrations of the SAT or ACT?
Do I need a minimum required SAT or ACT score?
If I take the ACT and/or SAT more than once, which results does Harvard consider?
How will you evaluate the new ACT?
Does Harvard superscore test results?
Can I self-report my test scores?
How will Harvard evaluate the new digital SAT?
How should I prepare for standardized tests?
What if I do not have access to SAT or ACT testing in my hometown or home country? What if it would be a financial hardship for me to access a SAT or ACT test site elsewhere?
What if it would be a financial hardship to register for the test?
Process
Does Harvard rank secondary schools in the U.S. and abroad?
Can I (as an applicant) write about my race/ethnicity in my application materials? Can I (as a counselor or teacher) write about a student’s race/ethnicity in my letter of recommendation?
Who should write my recommendations?
What help can students receive in writing their essays?
Who reads applications?
Is there a wait list?
Does Harvard admit students to enter in the spring semester?
Are there quotas for certain kinds of applicants?
Is there a separate admissions process for prospective athletes?
What should students know about visas?
Are my chances of admission enhanced by submitting application materials before other applicants?
I have a bachelor's degree. May I apply to Harvard College?
May I defer my admission once admitted?
What admissions criteria do you use?
May I apply to Harvard if I am admitted under a binding Early Decision program at another college?
How familiar is the Admissions Committee with secondary schools? Their rigor? What marks mean in a particular school or educational system?
Does Harvard consider legal immigration status in the admissions process?
Criteria
Can I fulfill academic requirements with previous coursework?
How important are extracurricular activities in admissions decisions?
Are there secondary school course requirements for admission?
Will it help me to take advanced, accelerated or honors courses?
Do I need certain grades or marks to be considered for admission?
Are my chances of admission enhanced if a relative has attended Harvard?
Is there an age requirement for applying to Harvard?
What if I have completed most or all of my secondary school coursework through self-study?
What is included in the Harvard supplement?
If my curriculum requires more than the 12-year U.S. curriculum, may I apply after my twelfth year?
Submitted Applications
I did not receive a PIN to access the applicant portal. Can I get a new one?
I submitted something by mistake. Can you remove it from my file?
I submitted the application, but I no longer want to be considered for admission. Can I withdraw my application?
What if my supplement wasn't submitted?
Have my application materials been received? (Including Common Application forms, or supplemental materials)
Can I add to or change something I wrote on my Common Application forms?
My contact information has changed since I submitted my application. How can I correct it?
How can I add new accomplishments/awards/accolades to my submitted application?
I submitted my application, but did not receive a confirmation email from Harvard. How do I know if you received it?
I applied under Restrictive Early Action, but I would like to be considered under Regular Decision. Can I change my application? (Or, I applied under Regular Decision and would like to be considered under Restrictive Early Action.)
I reported my SAT scores to Harvard, but my status page says they haven’t been received. Why?
Financial Aid: General
Harvard's Financial Aid Expansion March 2025
What does tuition-free mean?
Does Harvard's financial aid expansion apply to graduate students?
Does this expansion apply to current students and admitted students?
How do I apply for this new financial aid program?
What is Harvard's financial aid expansion for the 25-26 school year?
Challenging Circumstances
What if my family's financial situation changes while I am attending Harvard?
Can I apply for Harvard's financial aid independently of my parents?
What if my parents refuse to pay for my college education?
Cost of Attendance
What’s the difference between “room and board” and “housing and food”?
What is the “books and supplies” portion of my financial aid package?
Jobs
Am I required to work if I am an international student and I qualify for financial aid?
Is it easy to find a student job on or near campus?
What is the Federal Work-Study Program (FWSP)?
What is a Term-Time Work Expectation?
Loans
Where can I find parent financing information?
Are loans available if I choose not to work?
Outside Awards
How are funds I receive from organizations like National Merit, the Gates Scholars Program, and Jack Kent Cooke factored into my financial aid package?
How are funds I receive from programs like ROTC factored into my financial aid package?
What is considered an outside award?
What happens to my financial aid award if I receive additional outside assistance?
What do I need to do to report outside award(s)?
Where should I send outside award checks?
Where should I send Cost of Attendance or Verification of Enrollment forms?
How are funds I receive from my parents' employers (such as faculty tuition benefits or employer paid tuition assistance) factored into my financial aid package?
Refunds
Where do I request a refund from my term bill account?
Financial Aid Application
FAFSA Simplification
Will FAFSA Simplification change my aid eligibility?
CSS Profile
Can foreign students use the CSS Profile?
Do I need to do both the CSS Profile AND the Financial Statement for Students from Foreign Countries?
What is Harvard’s School Code for the CSS Profile?
Who can help me troubleshoot technical difficulties with the CSS Profile?
What should I do if I make a mistake on the CSS Profile?
Should I complete the CSS Profile even if my family has not yet filed our current year tax returns?
How will I know that the CSS Profile has been submitted correctly?
What do I do if I have already filed my CSS Profile, but other documents are missing from my financial aid application?
What if I am a foreign citizen who is unable to submit a CSS Profile online?
Divorced/Separated
What should I do if the CSS Profile from Noncustodial Household is missing?
What if I cannot ask one of my parents to send in their financial information?
FAFSA
How will I know that the FAFSA has been submitted correctly?
I'm a Canadian citizen; do I have to file a FAFSA?
What is Harvard’s Federal School Code for the FAFSA?
Who can help me troubleshoot technical difficulties with the FAFSA?
What should I do if I make a mistake on the FAFSA?
IDOC
What is the College Board Institutional Documentation Service (IDOC)?
How will I know that my IDOC materials have been submitted correctly?
Fee Waiver
How can I get a financial aid fee waiver?
I can't afford the CSS Profile fee and I'm foreign, so I can't get a College Board waiver.
I can't pay the CSS Profile fee because the US won't accept credit card payments from my country.
Missing Documents
What should I do if a Cash Flow Statement is missing?
What if my student tax return is missing but I didn't file a return?
How can I see what is missing/received and when?
What should I do if my CSS Profile is missing?
What if tax documents are missing and I have already sent my materials to IDOC?
What should I do if the Business/Farm Supplement is missing?
Taxes
What if my parents are unemployed or did not file a tax return?
What should I do if my parents or I will be requesting an extension for filing their federal taxes?
Can I send my tax returns directly to you?
What if my country doesn't have a tax return?
Other
What is the deadline for applying for financial aid?
Is it easy to qualify for financial aid at Harvard?
What can I do if my family's financial situation is complicated?
Will Harvard provide travel expenses for international students who receive financial aid?
What if I am interested only in applying for federal loans (Stafford and PLUS)?
How do you determine eligibility for Harvard Scholarships?
Can I email you my documents?
Are there any merit-based financial aid awards at Harvard?
How can I track material that I’ve sent your office?
What are transportation and personal expense allowances?
Do my financial aid documents have to be in English?
What should I do if my permanent address changes?
I am undocumented. Am I still eligible for financial aid?
What should I do if I am returning from a leave of absence?
What happens if my financial aid application is late?
Do I need to apply for a state scholarship?
Are deferred students still eligible for financial aid?
Is there financial aid available for foreign students?
How will I know if my financial aid application is incomplete?
Does Harvard participate in the Yellow Ribbon Program and/or ROTC?
When will I find out about my financial aid award?
Does applying for financial aid affect my chances for admission?
Study Abroad Financial Aid
Preparing To Go Abroad
Is it more expensive to study abroad?
How do you determine my study abroad personal expenses allowance?
Do I have to pay for health insurance when I’m abroad? Is that the same thing as the Health Services Fee?
When will I find out how much aid I will receive for my study abroad?
How do I know if I need to submit a Consortium Agreement?
What should I do if I am planning to Study Abroad for academic credit for part or all of next year?
What happens with the monthly Harvard Student Billing Statement?
What if I have questions about budgeting?
Who receives the bill from the study abroad program?
Am I eligible to use financial aid for study abroad?
What should I do if my program requires that I make a deposit prior to when my financial aid would ordinarily be disbursed? Does financial aid cover my air travel?
How do I notify the Financial Aid Office about my plans to study abroad?
Can I use financial aid to study abroad during the summer?
How does the Financial Aid Office determine my study abroad budget?
What happens if my program’s estimates differ from the standard amounts?
While You Are Abroad
How much financial aid will be sent to the program and how much to me?
What if I feel like my living expenses are higher than were anticipated?
What happens if I have questions or problems while I am abroad?
What happens to my loans while I study abroad?
International Students
Testing
Do I have to take the TOEFL?
Process
Are there quotas for international applicants?
Does Harvard offer admission application fee waivers to international students?
Is there an interview for international applicants?
How do international students apply?
Transfer Admissions
Criteria
How do I know if I am competitive? How hard is it to get in as a transfer student?
Testing
Are international transfer applicants required to take the SAT or ACT exam?
Is the TOEFL still required for transfer students even if I have taken classes at a college or university in the United States?
What are the standardized testing requirements for transfer applicants?
I am a non-traditional student. Am I still required to submit a standardized test? What about my high school transcript?
I applied to Harvard in the past and submitted test scores with my previous application. Do I need to submit test scores again? If I don't report my scores on my current transfer application, will you consider my application without testing?
Housing
Is there housing for transfer students on campus?
How are transfer students supported on campus?
Process
When can I apply as a transfer student?
What courses transfer to Harvard College? Is there a list of transferrable courses?
I am an international prospective transfer student. What is the transfer application process for me?
Are there interviews for transfer applicants?
How do I know if you received my transfer application materials?
How long does it take for application materials I have submitted to appear as received in my transfer application status?
May I apply for both Transfer Admission and for the Visiting Undergraduate Students (VUS) Program at the same time?
I am in my first semester/year of college. Can I apply to transfer?
Financial Aid
Do transfer students qualify for financial aid?
Veterans Admissions
US Military Veterans
I am a US military veteran. Should I apply as a first-year or transfer student?
My high school files no longer exist because the school closed or was destroyed by a fire/storm/war. What are my options?
Does Harvard accept credit earned from classes taken during my time in the military?
As a military veteran, my high school grades do not reflect my current work ethic and commitment to my studies. How does this impact my application?
I took college or community college courses before/during my time in the military. Am I eligible to apply as a transfer student?
I have been away from school for a while during my military service. Do I still need to submit letters of recommendation?
How can I interview if I am unable to leave my military base or am deployed at sea?
Is it possible to enroll at Harvard College and complete my coursework remotely while remaining on active duty?
I have never taken the SAT or ACT, or I have not taken the SAT or ACT in recent years and cannot because I’ve been on active duty, what do I do?
Is there a separate or different admissions process for military veterans?
Veterans Financial Aid
Is the financial aid application process the same for a veteran as it is for a non-veteran student? 
When a veteran completes the FAFSA, the Federal Government may categorize that student as an “independent student.”  Why is Harvard College requesting financial information for parent(s) if the Federal Government considers the student "independent?"
How can a veteran report unusual circumstances as a part of their financial aid application (such as unusual debts, liabilities, or anything else that may not be captured by the application)? 
Would a veteran be eligible for additional financial aid if they have unusually high expenses due to living off-campus?
If a student has VA Benefits that they will use while attending Harvard College, what does that process look like?
Is Harvard College a Yellow Ribbon Institution?  Does Harvard put a cap on the number of students who can receive the Yellow Ribbon funds?
Student Life and Support
Do students who are veterans have to live on campus?
Does Harvard have any student groups or alumni groups for veterans?
Visiting Undergraduate Students
VUS Admissions
Am I eligible to become a Visiting Undergraduate Student (VUS)?
Are standardized tests required as part of the Visiting Undergraduate Student (VUS) Application?
I am from another country but I speak English proficiently. Do I still need to take the TOEFL?
Is there a minimum TOEFL score required for the VUS program?
Are visiting undergraduate students eligible for Harvard housing?
Is there financial aid for visiting undergraduate students?
When should I apply for the VUS program?
Do Visiting Undergraduate Students (VUS) have the same privileges as Harvard Degree Candidates?
What is a Visiting Undergraduate Student (VUS)?
Site Footer
Helpful Links
Frequently Asked Questions
Applicant Portal
Admitted Students
Contact Us
My.Harvard
University Resources
Academic Calendar
Campus Map
Dean of Students Office
Directory
Office of Undergraduate Education
Office of Student Services
Important Addresses
Harvard Campus Map
Harvard College
University Hall
Cambridge, MA 02138
Harvard College Admissions Office and Griffin Financial Aid Office
86 Brattle Street
Cambridge, MA 02138
Social Links
Footer legal links
Privacy
Copyright Disclosure
Accessibility
Digital Accessibility
Copyright © 2025 The President & Fellows of Harvard College
If you are located in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Norway (the “European Economic Area”), please read the Additional EEA Privacy Disclosures about ways that certain Harvard University Schools, Centers, units and controlled entities, including this one, may collect, use, and share information about you.
Harvard does not discriminate against applicants or students on the basis of race, color, national origin, ancestry or any other protected classification.